different order of contents (#1)
GiottoVerducci/rulebook2024: content.md

![](bin/media/image11.png)

![](bin/media/image12.png)

> **Group:** Each vampire belongs to a specific group, identified by a

> > number above the upper left corner of the text box.

Reviewer: It should at least link to "Deck Construction", otherwise for a brand new player it's a confusing piece of information ("right, group, but what is this for?")

Author: agreed :) I don't know how to make links yet, as I am very new to GitHub. How can I do that good?

Some action modifier cards are played by minions "other than the acting
minion". Only minions controlled by the same Methuselah can play those

> cards. *The minion who plays those cards can play them even when they are locked.*

Reviewer: Useful. But I wouldn't put it in italics. 
```suggestion
cards, they can do so even if they are locked.
```

### **Wording templates**

You may come across cards which use certain templates (e.g. Govern the

> Unaligned). For a better understanding, the most important templates are

Reviewer: I'm not sure why the example? Maybe just remove the parenthesis? Or is that meant to mean an image should be added or something?

Author: Imo, there should be a small introduction for someone who doesn't know and I found an example helpful. A card image could be good imo - not sure atm why I chose Govern..

which these effects take place. Along with effects generated by cards,
there are other effects that are resolved during the unlock phase:

- If you have the **Edge**, you may gain 1 pool from the blood bank.\

> - If a **card you control is contested**, you may decide to continue the 
> contest.\
> - If a **title of a vampire you control is contested**, you may decide to 
> continue the contest.

Reviewer: Or 
```suggestion
- If you have an ongoing **contest**, you must decide whether to pay for it or to yield. (see [contest](#useful-link-here))
```

Author: Would a link really be needed if the explanation comes right after?

![](bin/media/image33.png)

### **Action Card (or Card in Play)**

- **Who can perform an action by default:** Any ready minion. A minion
cannot perform an action with the same action card from hand or in play
more than once each turn, even if they unlock.
- **Cost:** As listed on the card.
- **Default target:** As listed on the card.
- **Default stealth:** Unless otherwise noted on the card, these actions
are at 0 stealth.
- **Effect:** If the action is successful, it resolves as indicated on
the card. If the card describes a special version of a basic action,
then all the rules that apply to the basic action apply, except as
otherwise noted on the card.

![](bin/media/image41.png)

> **ADVANCED RULES**\
> \
> **Become Anarch**

> > - Who can become Anarch: Any ready untitled non-Anarch vampire.

Reviewer 2: Prefer `non-titled` to `untitled`.  I know this passage moved, but cards use `non-titled`, we should use the same language in the rulebook.
```suggestion
> - Who can become Anarch: Any ready non-titled non-Anarch vampire.
```

### **Torpor**

*When a vampire cannot mend their wounds, they enter into a deep sleep
known as torpor. A vampire in torpor is particularly weak and vulnerable
to attacks from others of their kind. A vampire in torpor may be burned
by a vampire through the act of diablerie
(see [**Diablerie**](https://www.vekn.net/rulebook#diablerie) below).*

> If a vampire cannot mend their wounds, they go into torpor. Vampires in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vampires in
```

torpor are placed in an area to one side of the uncontrolled region. Any
retainers, equipment, and other cards on the vampire stay with the
vampire when they go into torpor.

A vampire in torpor can perform no action except the "leave torpor"
action and cannot block or play reaction cards. They can play action
modifiers during their actions.

> A vampire in torpor is still considered controlled but is not ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A vampire in torpor is still controlled but is not ready.
```

They still unlock at the start of the unlock phase.

> A vampire in torpor cannot cast any votes or ballots (they must
> abstain).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A vampire in torpor cannot cast any votes or ballots.
```

may cast some of their votes and ballots in favour and some against, as
they choose, with the restriction that all of the votes and ballots from
any given vampire or other source must be cast in agreement as a group.
Once cast, a vote or a ballot cannot be changed. 

> Methuselahs can gain votes and ballots in the following ways:

Reviewer: I would be careful with changes carriage returns and stuff like that. I have no idea how the Markdown format get translated back to HTML or PDF, but this might impact the overall layout in an unexpected way.

Reviewer 3: The PDF rulebook layout is updated manually. The markdown layout only applies to the markdown version (even though it is usually translated somehow to other layouts).

> dodging only protects from the opponent's strike.\
> \
> **Aggravated damage:** Some damage is described as aggravated damage,
> such as damage from fire, sunlight, or from the claws or fangs of some
> other supernatural creatures, including some vampires. Aggravated damage
> differs from normal damage in two ways: aggravated damage cannot be
> mended, and aggravated damage can burn a vampire if that vampire is
> already wounded. Since it cannot be mended, the vampire does not burn
> any blood to mend it, but instead becomes wounded (goes straight to
> torpor), unless the damage has been prevented.\
> \
> Aggravated damage done to a wounded vampire can burn the vampire outright. A wounded vampire is one that has taken damage that they
> failed to mend or one that is in torpor or on their way to torpor.

For each point of aggravated damage that is successfully inflicted on a
wounded vampire, they must burn 1 blood to prevent their destruction. If
they do not have enough blood, they are burned. Destruction by this
method does not constitute diablerie
(see [**Diablerie**](https://www.vekn.net/rulebook#diablerie)).

> If both normal damage and aggravated damage are successfully inflicted

Reviewer: now you hit a conundrum because your new presentation begs the question: "What about environmental damage"? Since you've separated them from "Normal" damages in the sections just before. You might want to keep instead `regular damage (normal or environmental)`, or maybe switch simply to `non-aggravated damage` (as on the cards texts)

Author: if card texts say non-aggravated, imo it would be best to stick with that :)
